PoP stats service (#172)
hemilabs/heminetwork: popstats/README.md

Reviewer: I think we could wrap the contents of this file at 120 characters to match the other markdown files. I think this makes it easier to maintain on smaller screens, as well as in editors like vim or emacs.

Then it reports the results before taking care of the next chunk.
The intended side-effect is to report points once per day, even during the initial run where many days need to be reported.

In addition, within each chunk, the network is queried for those transfer events in sub-chunks of 1200 blocks (4 hours) to minimize the impact on the RPC nodes. Additional rate limits were set with the same goal.

The state of the process is stored in a single key in a Redis database so the service knows where to start at the beginning of each run.
That state is the number of the last blocks processed and reported to Absinthe.

The data sent to Absinthe includes the address receiving the PoP payouts, the amount of points granted and some metadata just intended for tracking/auditing purposes.

## How to run locally

Set the following environment variables in a `.env` file:

- ABSINTHE_API_URL and ABSINTHE_API_KEY: URL of the Absinthe GraphQL API and authentication JWT
- REDIS_URL: Full URI of the Redis database

Optionally, start a Redis instance:

```sh

> npm run redis:start

Reviewer: PNPM is being used, however this command appears to use NPM.
```suggestion
pnpm redis:start
```

Author: I removed all the scripts. Seem cleaner now.

```

Finally, build the Docker image and start a container:

```sh

> npm run docker:build
> npm run docker:run

Reviewer: PNPM is being used, however this command appears to use NPM.
```suggestion
pnpm docker:build
pnpm docker:run
```

Author: Same.

# PoP stats

> This PR adds a service that will identify all the PoP payout transactions, summarize, calculate the incentive program points and report those to Absinthe.

Reviewer 2: It's a minor thing, but, weirdly, the README starts with "This PR" - once merged it will no longer make sense... Were you thinking of a changelog or something?

Having said that, some minor corrections:

```suggestion
This PR adds a service that identifies all the PoP payout transactions, summarizes, calculates the incentive program points, and reports those to Absinthe.
```

## How it works

> This service is prepared to be run once a day as a cron job.
> On each run, it gets all the HEMI token mint operations (transfers coming from the null address), filters those originated by the depositor address (0x8888...8888), summarize the events by recipient address, do some data formatting and send it to Absinthe.
> 
> In order to walk through the history more efficiently, the service processes the blocks in chunks of 7200, which is roughly 1 day worth of Hemi Network blocks.
> Then it reports the results before taking care of the next chunk.
> The intended side-effect is to report points once per day, even during the initial run where many days need to be reported.
> 
> In addition, within each chunk, the network is queried for those transfer events in sub-chunks of 1200 blocks (4 hours) to minimize the impact on the RPC nodes. Additional rate limits were set with the same goal.
> 
> The state of the process is stored in a single key in a Redis database so the service knows where to start at the beginning of each run.
> That state is the number of the last blocks processed and reported to Absinthe.
> 
> The data sent to Absinthe includes the address receiving the PoP payouts, the amount of points granted and some metadata just intended for tracking/auditing purposes.

Reviewer 2: Minor spelling checks 

```suggestion
This service is prepared to be run once a day as a cron job.
On each run, it gets all the HEMI token mint operations (transfers coming from the null address), filters those originated by the depositor address (0x8888...8888), summarizes the events by recipient address, does some data formatting and sends it to Absinthe.

In order to walk through the history more efficiently, the service processes the blocks in chunks of 7200, which is roughly 1 day's worth of Hemi Network blocks.
Then it reports the results before taking care of the next chunk.
The intended side-effect is to report points once per day, even during the initial run where many days need to be reported.

In addition, within each chunk, the network is queried for those transfer events in sub-chunks of 1200 blocks (4 hours) to minimize the impact on the RPC nodes. Additional rate limits were set with the same goal.

The state of the process is stored in a single key in a Redis database so the service knows where to start at the beginning of each run.
That state is the number of the last blocks processed and reported to Absinthe.

The data sent to Absinthe includes the address receiving the PoP payouts, the amount of points granted and some metadata just intended for tracking/auditing purposes.
```
